OSDOCS-8904: Private Cluster on ROSA with HCP docs (#70451)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rosa-hcp-aws-privatelink-security-groups.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_hcp/rosa-hcp-aws-privatelink-creating-cluster.adoc
[id="rosa-hcp-aws-privatelink-security-groups_{context}"]
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
= Configuring AWS security groups to access the API

> With {hcp-title} private clusters, the AWS PrivateLink endpoint exposed in the customer's VPC has a default security group and is applied limited access to the PrivateLink endpoint to only those resources that exist within the VPC, or resources that present with an IP address associated with the VPC CIDR range. In order to grant access to any entities outside of the VPC, either through VPC peering, transit gateway, etc., you will need to create and attach another security group to the PrivateLink endpoint granting the necessary access.

Reviewer: I think the first sentence here needs to be broken down into two (or more sentences). It is very long and complex.

> With {hcp-title} private clusters, the AWS PrivateLink endpoint exposed in the customer's VPC has a default security group and is applied limited access to the PrivateLink endpoint to only those resources that exist within the VPC, or resources that present with an IP address associated with the VPC CIDR range. In order to grant access to any entities outside of the VPC, either through VPC peering, transit gateway, etc., you will need to create and attach another security group to the PrivateLink endpoint granting the necessary access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With {hcp-title} private clusters, the AWS PrivateLink endpoint exposed in the customer's VPC has a default security group and is applied limited access to the PrivateLink endpoint to only those resources that exist within the VPC, or resources that present with an IP address associated with the VPC CIDR range. In order to grant access to entities outside of the VPC, through methods such as VPC peering and transit gateway, you must create and attach another security group to the PrivateLink endpoint to grant the necessary access.
```

.Prerequisites

> * Your corporate network or other VPC has connectivity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your corporate network or other VPC has connectivity.
```

> * You have permission to create and attach security groups within the VPC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have permission to create and attach security groups within the VPC.
```

.Procedure

> . Set your cluster name as an environment variable by running the following command:

Reviewer: Is it an "environment" or "environmental" variable?

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export CLUSTER_NAME=<cluster_name>
----
+
You can verify that the variable has been set by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ echo $CLUSTER_NAME
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
hcp-private
----

> . Use the following command to find the VPCE ID and VPC ID:

Reviewer: Did we ever spell out what "VPCE" stands for? I know VPC is spelled out, but what about the E?

> . Use the following command to find the VPC endpoint (VPCE) ID and VPC ID:

Reviewer 2: Could be flipped around to match the more common "by running the following command" style:
```suggestion
. Find the VPC endpoint (VPCE) ID and VPC ID by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ read -r VPCE_ID VPC_ID <<< $(aws ec2 describe-vpc-endpoints --filters "Name=tag:api.openshift.com/id,Values=$(rosa describe cluster -c ${CLUSTER_NAME} -o yaml | grep '^id: ' | cut -d' ' -f2)" --query 'VpcEndpoints[].[VpcEndpointId,VpcId]' --output text)
----

. Create your security group by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export SG_ID=$(aws ec2 create-security-group --description "Granting API access to ${CLUSTER_NAME} from outside of VPC" --group-name "${CLUSTER_NAME}-api-sg" --vpc-id $VPC_ID --output text)
----

> . Use the following command to add an ingress rule to the security group:

Reviewer 2: Same re: flipping:
```suggestion
. Add an ingress rule to the security group by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws ec2 authorize-security-group-ingress --group-id $SG_ID --ip-permissions FromPort=443,ToPort=443,IpProtocol=tcp,IpRanges=[{CidrIp=0.0.0.0/0}]
----

> . Add the the new security group to the VPCE with the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Add the the new security group to the VPCE by running the following command:
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_hcp/rosa-hcp-aws-privatelink-creating-cluster.adoc
[id="rosa-hcp-aws-privatelink-security-groups_{context}"]

> = Configuring AWS security groups to access the API

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
= Configuring AWS security groups to access the API
```

> With private {hcp-title} clusters, the AWS PrivateLink endpoint exposed in the customer's VPC has a default security group is applied limiting access to the PrivateLink endpoint to only those resources that exist within the VPC, or that present with an IP address associated with the VPC CIDR range. In order to grant access to any entities outside of the VPC, either through VPC peering, transit gateway, etc., you will need to create and attach another security group to the PrivateLink endpoint granting the necessary access.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With {hcp-title} private clusters, the AWS PrivateLink endpoint exposed in the customer's VPC has a default security group and is applied limiting access to the PrivateLink endpoint to only those resources that exist within the VPC, or that present with an IP address associated with the VPC CIDR range. In order to grant access to any entities outside of the VPC, either through VPC peering, transit gateway, etc., you will need to create and attach another security group to the PrivateLink endpoint granting the necessary access.
```

> With {hcp-title} private clusters, the AWS PrivateLink endpoint exposed in the customer's VPC has a default security group and is applied limiting access to the PrivateLink endpoint to only those resources that exist within the VPC, or that present with an IP address associated with the VPC CIDR range. In order to grant access to any entities outside of the VPC, either through VPC peering, transit gateway, etc., you will need to create and attach another security group to the PrivateLink endpoint granting the necessary access.

Reviewer 3: Just checking, is this meant to be limited?
```suggestion
With {hcp-title} private clusters, the AWS PrivateLink endpoint exposed in the customer's VPC has a default security group and is applied limited access to the PrivateLink endpoint to only those resources that exist within the VPC, or that present with an IP address associated with the VPC CIDR range. In order to grant access to any entities outside of the VPC, either through VPC peering, transit gateway, etc., you will need to create and attach another security group to the PrivateLink endpoint granting the necessary access.
```

> With {hcp-title} private clusters, the AWS PrivateLink endpoint exposed in the customer's VPC has a default security group and is applied limiting access to the PrivateLink endpoint to only those resources that exist within the VPC, or that present with an IP address associated with the VPC CIDR range. In order to grant access to any entities outside of the VPC, either through VPC peering, transit gateway, etc., you will need to create and attach another security group to the PrivateLink endpoint granting the necessary access.

Reviewer 3: I think an extra noun would be clearer here, up to you:
```suggestion
With {hcp-title} private clusters, the AWS PrivateLink endpoint exposed in the customer's VPC has a default security group and is applied limiting access to the PrivateLink endpoint to only those resources that exist within the VPC, or resources that present with an IP address associated with the VPC CIDR range. In order to grant access to any entities outside of the VPC, either through VPC peering, transit gateway, etc., you will need to create and attach another security group to the PrivateLink endpoint granting the necessary access.
```
Not sure if "resources" is the right noun, though

.Prerequisites

* Your corporate network or other VPC has connectivity
* You have permission to create and attach security groups within the VPC

.Procedure

. Set your cluster name as an environment variable by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export CLUSTER_NAME=<cluster_name>
----
+
You can verify that the variable has been set by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ echo $CLUSTER_NAME
----
+

> You should see your cluster's name.

Reviewer 3: Up to you but you could probably delete this if you already have the example output below

+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
hcp-private
----

. Use the following command to find the VPCE ID and VPC ID:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ read -r VPCE_ID VPC_ID <<< $(aws ec2 describe-vpc-endpoints --filters "Name=tag:api.openshift.com/id,Values=$(rosa describe cluster -c ${CLUSTER_NAME} -o yaml | grep '^id: ' | cut -d' ' -f2)" --query 'VpcEndpoints[].[VpcEndpointId,VpcId]' --output text)
----

. Create your security group by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export SG_ID=$(aws ec2 create-security-group --description "Granting API access to ${CLUSTER_NAME} from outside of VPC" --group-name "${CLUSTER_NAME}-api-sg" --vpc-id $VPC_ID --output text)
----

. Use the following command to add an ingress rule to the security group:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws ec2 authorize-security-group-ingress --group-id $SG_ID --ip-permissions FromPort=443,ToPort=443,IpProtocol=tcp,IpRanges=[{CidrIp=0.0.0.0/0}]
----

> . You now add the the new security group to the VPCE with the following command:

Reviewer 3: Same thing about imperative mood (plus there's an extra "the" here):

```suggestion
. Add the new security group to the VPCE with the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws ec2 modify-vpc-endpoint --vpc-endpoint-id $VPCE_ID --add-security-group-ids $SG_ID
----

> You now can access the API with your private {hcp-title} cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You now can access the API with your {hcp-title} private cluster.
```
